CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to FAIR Sequence-to-Sequence Toolkit (PyTorch)
We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Pull Requests
We actively welcome your pull requests.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")
In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla>

## Issues
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

## Coding Style
We try to follow the PEP style guidelines and encourage you to as well.

## License
By contributing to FAIR Sequence-to-Sequence Toolkit, you agree that your contributions will be licensed
under the LICENSE file in the root directory of this source tree.

Commit message:

Relicense fairseq under MIT license (#786)
Summary:
The previous BSD+PATENTS license was controversial. We have been
approved to relicense fairseq under the MIT license.
Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/fairinternal/fairseq-py/pull/786

Differential Revision: D16560654

Pulled By: myleott

fbshipit-source-id: f78b1beb4f2895dd7b9bfc79f5f952a2bfb94034

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Facebook AI Research Sequence-to-Sequence Toolkit (fairseq)
We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as
possible.

## Pull Requests
We actively welcome your pull requests.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. If you haven't already, complete the Contributor License Agreement ("CLA").

## Contributor License Agreement ("CLA")
In order to accept your pull request, we need you to submit a CLA. You only need
to do this once to work on any of Facebook's open source projects.

Complete your CLA here: <https://code.facebook.com/cla>

## Issues
We use GitHub issues to track public bugs. Please ensure your description is
clear and has sufficient instructions to be able to reproduce the issue.

## License
By contributing to Facebook AI Research Sequence-to-Sequence Toolkit (fairseq),
you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the LICENSE file in
the root directory of this source tree.
